---
layout: post
date: 2020-06-28 12:36
title: "Walk"
description:
comments: false
category: 
- post
tags:
- science
- sports
---
Some years ago, I noticed that whenever I went for a long walk, I had clever ideas to deal with professional or personal situations. I could feel the creativity flow in my head, but without understanding why I felt so sharp. It seemed I had more clarity to analyze facts and to come up with plans to do what I needed to do. It was just natural.

This brainstorming in my head became a practice, and in the middle of these long walks, I started to write these new ideas, insights, and thoughts on my notes app so that I could develop them a bit more later.

After some time without going for walks, I decided to go for a long bike ride one of these days and guess what? I got into that state again, where I could see things clearly, and some ideas popped up in my head out of the blue. I felt amazed by the things I thought and decided to research the topic. I assumed it was impossible to be the only human being passing through these mind trips while exercising. I discovered some cool stuff.

What if I tell you that Charles Darwin, Friedrich Nietzsche, and Aristotle were avid walkers, because of the same reason I just told you? Henry David Thoreau once wrote: "Methinks that the moment my legs begin to move, my thoughts begin to flow."

**So, what is the phenomenon that happens when you walk?**

When you are walking, your heart pumps faster than usual, and it makes your body circulates more oxygen and blood to the organs, including your brain. Some [experiments](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23509628/) have shown that during or after exercises, people perform better on memory and attention tests. There is an entire article from The New Yorker [here](https://www.newyorker.com/tech/annals-of-technology/walking-helps-us-think), describing some other interesting facts about walking.

Marily Oppezzo and Daniel L. Schwartz, from Stanford University, ran an [experiment](https://www.apa.org/pubs/journals/releases/xlm-a0036577.pdf) that is likely the first set of studies that directly measure the way walking changes creativity in the moment.

The place you go for a walk matter as well, some [studies](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1467-9280.2008.02225.x) have shown that if you are exercising in a place full of trees, your memory has a better performance than if you are walking in the streets of a city.

How fantastic is that? In the end, I was not tripping, the thing is real.

Go for a walk.