---
layout: post
date: 2020-10-16 12:36
title: "The best advice I heard in the last years"
description: Thoughts about reading, immersion, and time.
comments: false
category: 
- post
tags:
- advice
---
My first bad grade at school was in the third grade because I didn't read a specific [book](https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/I/51fgsF7MlnL._SY344_BO1,204,203,200_QL70_ML2_.jpg) called "The adventures of a drop of water." Unfortunately, I don't remember why I didn't read it; maybe those were my first sparks of procrastination. It was a very frustrating situation for my family and me since I used to be one of the class's best students.

I assume that I didn't feel any joy reading that story because I was already reading some more exciting stuff like mysteries about teenagers trying to solve a crime or something like that. 

As you may know, most of our behaviors as adults come from our childhood, and we tend not to question them during our life that much. Somehow, a few years after my childhood, my operational system still had this bizarre attachment to books I was reading. Even if it was the most boring piece of literature ever, I needed to finish. Go until the end, swallow this bullshit, and then you can start a new book. Now I see almost as some sort of self-punishment. I can not stop reading; I need to go until the end because I don't want to have bad grades anymore, right? This mindset followed me for many years until I learn something about reading, immersion, and time. 

Naval Ravikant is a very well-known entrepreneur and investor from Silicon Valley who has interesting ideas about business and life. A few months ago, I started to binge-watch some videos from him and to read articles and books from his "mentor" Kapil Gupta. It's hard to explain the things they cover with their content in a short phrase; maybe you can find yourself. I mentioned them because the best advice that I learned is a mix of ideas from both.

Kapil described that the only thing that he fears in life is to not be 100% immersed in the things he is involved in; he has no time to lose. Naval said in of the podcasts he participated in that he could not care less about dropping a book if it is not engaging for him; he does this all the time. He jumps to different chapters, and if the books continue uninteresting, he goes to the next one, and so on.

We all have our unique set of interests, things we deeply care about. Imagine how many books, blogs, podcasts, researches, etc. about these things you genuinely care about are available, and you are not consuming them because you are stuck on something meaningless for you. How many times did you keep reading a book that was not pleasant for you? How many times did you not start something else because you were stuck on something irrelevant? How many times did you invest your energy and attention in things you were not fully immersed in? These were all questions I asked myself. 

And how to stop that?

Our society is learning year by year that we need to retake control of our attention after years of exploitation from big tech companies and media. And I am learning too, from different angles. We lost from many sides during these years, and now we need to reconnect with ourselves and assess the damage.

Okay, you are done with my flush of thoughts; here is the advice: Don't lose one more minute of your life, focusing on things that don't relate with your deep interests. Drop the wrong books, unfruitful relationships, meaningless jobs, negative friends, addictive hobbies, irrelevant news, everything. Create a strategy to bring more space in your life for what you genuinely care about; invest your time and energy there for the rest of your days. 

And make sure you don't follow advice.



